# ABET Constraint Essay

## Economic
Currently, our aim is to keep any potential financial limitations to a minimum. We already possess some of the hardware required such as an Amazon Echo and Google Home. We will also be using the free tiers of AWS although upgrades may be necessary later. Any further funding that our project might require will be supplied personally by the team members. Also, we are using the open-source Hadoop stack for our big data processing in part because it is cost-effective. Each member is willing to spend around $50 if costs such as buying more server storage rise. Ideally, we would like to keep the costs at a minimum. Our product would contribute to economic development by providing an easily accessible and affordable alternative to hiring skilled data analysts.

## Professional
Our choice of project was made with the intention that it has an impact on our collective professional development abilities and increases our public reputations. The project primarily requires knowledge & expertise in the areas of natural language processing, machine learning, cloud computing, and web development. Collectively, as a team, we possess these requirements and have applied them previously in academic and professional environments. Natural Language Processing is a highly specialized area of computer science that is in demand in the industry. The project also uses many technologies (HDFS, MapReduce, Spark, Hive, Kylin) from the Hadoop stack that are sought after skills by future employers. This project will therefore provide us relevant experience with many technologies that will help us as we apply for graduate school or interview with companies.

## Security
There could be potential security concerns due to the project's reliance on devices such as Amazon Echo and Google Home. While extremely rare, an accidental awakening of the devices due to a misheard ‘wake word’ will trigger recording resulting in a privacy violation. A previously reported incident where Alexa sent recordings to a random contact of the owner is a good example. Also, traditional devices like computers and workstations that house data and BI tools have enhanced security measures like passwords and facial/fingerprint recognition. A voice-based app is not that secure in those terms as anyone can query and can extract sensitive data in sub-second latency. Voice recognition for security is still not mature and cannot be integrated into our product yet.

## Social
Our project could potentially be used for public service. For example, by city planners, due to the availability of data for cities such as [New York] (https://opendata.cityofnewyork.us/ "New York City Data") and [Cincinnati] (https://data.cincinnati-oh.gov/ "Cincinnati Data"). Cities have massive amounts of data that can be used to enhance city services for the citizens. An easy voice-based conversational data analysis tool like ours will help the planners to achieve quick results. More importantly, cities can release a voice app (Eg - Alexa skill) for citizens. With this app, citizens can easily get more information about the city leading to more transparency between the city government and citizens. A good example query could be “By how much percent has the rent increased in the Brooklyn neighborhoods for lower-middle-class families?.”
