# Capstone Self-Assessment Essay

## Introduction
The project aims to harness the power of voice assistants in order to deliver insights from large datasets. The end product will be an Alexa Skill and a Google Action that uses natural language processing techniques to convert a conversational request into a suitable query that can parse through the dataset and obtain relevant insights. An example of this, 'Which month had the lowest amount of stationery sales in Michigan last year?', needs to combine all pen sales, notebook sales, etc. and understand that 'last year' refers to 2017 in order to come up with a single number. To answer the query in a timely manner, the data must be sifted through quickly. Data cubes will be used to accomplish this. The final components of the project will be using AWS lambda functions and other cloud computing resources along with a web application to successfully query the data cubes created from the user's dataset.

## Relevant College Experiences
The Computer Science curriculum at UC has played an important role in acquiring the technical skills required to develop this project. Data Structures (CS 2028), Discrete Structures (CS 2071), and Design and Analysis of Algorithms (CS 4071) have formed the foundation of my coding abilities and will help me think through a project of this scale. Software Engineering (EECE 3093) introduced me to concepts such as agile methodology and the labs in the course gave me practical experience in coming up with user stories and design diagrams. Linear Algebra (MATH 2076) gave me the necessary understanding of matrices and their operations, which is required for working with large datasets and machine learning algorithms. Finally, Natural Language Processing (CS 5134) taught me the NLP techniques and methodologies, and also introduced machine learning concepts, both of which I will apply to the Alexa Skill and Google Action portion of my senior design project. Overall, my courses at UC have prepared me well for this project, and classes I am currently taking, such as Information Retrieval (CS 5154) and User Interfaces (CS 5167) will also augment my abilities.

## Relevant Co-op Experiences
During the course of my degree, I have completed three co-ops at three different companies. My first co-op as Software Developer Intern at RSW/US taught me about everything that goes into building a software development project from scratch, including working with the full stack and making decisions about which technologies to use. At my next two co-ops at Software Major (as a Software Developer Intern) and Goldman Sachs (as a Summer Technology Analyst), I learnt how to work in a team with other software developers, designers and supervisors. I also had the opportunity to learn how to take simple requirements and convert them into a completed project. At Goldman Sachs, I worked on a Natural Language Processing project with a large dataset. While the goal of that NLP project was slightly different from the query-response system I am building now, the foundation was similar and the overall techniques are directly applicable. Finally, in all three roles, I built full stack web applications, and the experience will help me develop a robust web application for our senior design project.  

## Motivation
I am excited about working on this project primarily due to the Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning components, which I will be in charge of. I love the challenge of working with large datasets, and I will have the opportunity to work with quite a few throughout this senior design project. I eventually want to specialize in NLP or data science, so it fits well with my interests. Furthermore, the cloud computing and Alexa aspects are completely new to me. This will enable me to expand my skillset and venture into new areas of computer science. Finally, I believe I will stay motivated as this is a cohesive project with a practical use, and my group has clearly outlined specific portions for each team member to work on.

## Preliminary Project Approach
Our preliminary approach to a solution is diving the project into three main components: natural language processing, data processing, and the web application. For my part, I will first research the best methods to convert natural language queries to SQL and back. There are several research papers I would like in order to read to understand common methodologies and techniques. My next step would be to choose the best features to implement and train a machine learning model on a valid dataset consisting of questions and their SQL counterparts. The expected result of the project will be that the user can successfully upload any dataset to the web application and then query Alexa to obtain answers that accurately answer the questions posed. I will evaluate my contributions by measuring the accuracy, precision, f1 scores, etc. of the ML model against the gold standard of the dataset. This includes evaluating NL query to SQL and SQL to NL response using the appropriate evaluation metrics. I will know that I have done a good job if the results of the evaluation are well above the random baseline.
