From an academic perspective, the project combines different aspects of computer science and software engineering to result in one cohesive working unit. There are three main units that make up the project: natural language processing (NLP), data processing, and full-stack web development. I will address each part individually. First, natural language processing is a branch of computer/data science that deals with interactions between computers and human languages. Our project relies heavily on NLP because we need to convert a normal English sentence into a valid SQL query and then convert the result of the query back to a normal English sentence. NLP is what makes our project conversational and human. Next is data processing. Quick insights on large datasets are made possible with advancements in big data. In the project, we will employ data cubes which are multi-dimensional data structures to hold the preprocessed data that will be queried upon. This unit makes the project fast. Lastly, the web app will allow the user to upload the data and specify the dimensions of the cube. The web app essentially acts as the visual border that allows the user to see the data and configure as needed. This unit provides the interface.

Looking back at the projects and exams I have worked on in my CS classes, I am confident that the CS curriculum has provided me with adequate training and experiences to work on this project. Two crucial classes, Data Structures (CS 2028C) and Design and Analysis of Algorithms (CS 4071), have provided the necessary base to learn new data structures and implement operations with them. This knowledge will be important when we work with data cubes for faster query processing. In my Python Programming (CS 2021) class, I worked on a project that used REST API calls with Flask to get data from Uber's API. I will use this knowledge when writing the functions to receive the data from the web app, convert it as required, and send it to Apache Kylin to query cubes. Lastly, concepts learned from CS Electives like Natural Language Processing (CS 5134) and Intro to Cloud Computing (CS 5165) will guide us as we convert natural language sentences to SQL statements on the cloud. Many of these CS courses involved group work for assignments and/or projects. This will prove to be very useful as our group moves forwards in the process. I now know how to work with my classmates on technical projects, explain my ideas, and give technical feedback. 

I have completed three software engineering coops that have given me valuable exposure in both, technical and non-technical aspects of computer science and software engineering. In my second coop with TIBCO Software, I developed a custom Alexa skill to augment the data science tools built by the company. The skill used voice commands to modify dashboards and data visualizations and employed a lot of REST APIs to connect everything. In our query and response unit of our project, this experience will be useful. I also learned how to work well in a group with diverse strengths. All my coworkers so far have been very forthcoming and helpful whenever I needed help. I aim to cultivate a similar environment in the group. This will help keep up the group morale and definitely improve the quality of the project and our learnings from it. Also, I cooped again with TIBCO Software this summer where I worked on a lot of open-source full stack libraries and frameworks. This will help in two ways: 1) I now know where to find answers to technical problems we are stuck on as we now know where to find the community for a particular open-source software and 2) I can help develop the web app unit which will utilize a lot of the same libraries I worked on before. 

I have always believed in the power of leveraging technology to make our lives better. That is one of the reasons I chose to pursue a degree in computer science and why I am excited about this senior design project. If we were a company creating this project, our mission statement would be "making data accessible to all." Apart from our mission, I am also looking forward to working with my teammates. Over the years, I have learned a lot from them in my time at UC and am confident that this project will be the same. Lastly, I have never worked a lot with big data (Hadoop stack) let alone connect that data to voice and the web. I love the intersectionality of different technologies in this project and look forward to making this project possible with my team. 

While coming up and finalizing an idea is important, it is just as important to have a plan on how we will bring it to life. One of the first decisions we made as a group after the ideation process was that we will divide the project into three units which will then be led by each member of the team. The members heading the units have some demonstrated experience in that area and have shown their interest in heading that unit. If all units are working as intended and cohesively with each other, we will know that each member has done their part in the project. When we have all the individual units working together, that will be a good indication that we have achieved a significant goal. After achieving this, we would like to have some outsiders test and give their feedback. If the general feedback is that the app is conversational and helps them understand the data better, we will feel that we have done a good job. 